README.md, before:

# 🚀 Oracle Database on Apple Silicon - Maximum Power

Complete solution for running Oracle Database 19c Enterprise Edition on Apple Silicon Macs (M1, M2, M3, M4+) using Docker.

## 📋 Prerequisites

- Docker and Docker Compose
- Make
- Git

## 🛠 Technologies

- Oracle Database 19.3.0 Enterprise Edition
- Python 3.11
- oracledb driver version 1.4.2
- Docker & Docker Compose

## 🏗 Project Structure

```
.
├── docker-compose.yml      # Docker containers configuration
├── Dockerfile             # Python application build
├── Makefile              # Make commands for management
├── requirements.txt      # Python dependencies
├── test_app.py          # Test application
└── README.md            # Documentation (you are here 👀)
```

## 🎯 Make Commands

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `make all` | Full setup from scratch (clone repo + build + start) |
| `make db` | Starts Oracle Database only |
| `make test-app` | Starts the test Python application |
| `make app-logs` | Shows test application logs |
| `make start-all` | Starts everything (both database and application) |
| `make stop-all` | Stops all services |

## ⚠️ Important

If building from scratch with `make all`, the process will pause and show you download instructions. **Please read them carefully** - you'll need to download an Oracle installer file (~2.8GB) before continuing on one of the steps!

## 🚀 Quick Start

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/Genethehuman/Oracle.git
cd Oracle
```

2. Start everything with one command:
```bash
make start-all
```

3. Check application logs:
```bash
make app-logs
```

## 📝 Usage Examples

### Start Database Only
```bash
make db
```

### Start Test Application
```bash
make test-app
```

### View Logs
```bash
make app-logs
```

### Stop All Services
```bash
make stop-all
```

## 🔍 What Does the Test Application Do?

1. Waits for the database to be ready
2. Creates a test table
3. Inserts test data
4. Reads and displays the data

## ⚙️ Configuration & Customization

### 🔑 Database Settings

You can customize database settings by modifying these files:

#### **docker-compose.yml** - Main database configuration:
```yaml
services:
  oracle:
    environment:
      - ORACLE_PWD=YourPass321    # Change database password here
    ports:
      - "1521:1521"              # Change external port here (host:container)
```

#### **test_app.py** - Application connection settings:
```python
connection = oracledb.connect(
    user="system",                           # Database user
    password=os.getenv("ORACLE_PASSWORD", "YourPass321"),  # Password
    dsn="oracle:1521/ORCLPDB1"              # Host:Port/Service
)
```

#### **Makefile** - Default values:
```makefile
ORACLE_PASSWORD ?= YourPass321              # Default password
CONTAINER_NAME := oracle                    # Container name
```

### 🌐 Common Customizations

#### Change Database Password:
1. Update `ORACLE_PWD` in `docker-compose.yml`
2. Update `ORACLE_PASSWORD` in `docker-compose.yml` (test_app service)
3. Update password in `test_app.py` or use environment variable

#### Change Database Port:
1. Update port mapping in `docker-compose.yml`: `"1522:1521"`
2. Update connection string in `test_app.py`: `"oracle:1522/ORCLPDB1"`

#### Use Different Container Name:
1. Update `container_name` in `docker-compose.yml`
2. Update `CONTAINER_NAME` in `Makefile`

#### Connect from External Application:
```python
# Use this connection string in your apps:
connection_string = "system/YourPass321@localhost:1521/ORCLPDB1"
```

### 🔒 Security Notes

- **Default password**: `YourPass321` (change for production!)
- **Default port**: `1521` (standard Oracle port)
- **Service name**: `ORCLPDB1` (Oracle Pluggable Database)
- **Default user**: `system` (Oracle system user)

## 🤝 Contributing

If you want to help the project - make a fork and send a pull request! We welcome any help.

## 📜 License

MIT

## 👥 Authors

- [Gene Podrezov](https://github.com/Genethehuman)

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- Big thanks to Oracle for the excellent database
- Thanks to the Python community for amazing tools
- Special thanks to all brothers who will use this code!


---
*Made with ❤️ by brothers for brothers*

Commit message:

Increased wait time for test app to run, updated README file

README.md, after:

# 🚀 Oracle Database on Apple Silicon - Maximum Power

Complete solution for running Oracle Database 19c Enterprise Edition on Apple Silicon Macs (M1, M2, M3, M4+) using Docker.

## 📋 Prerequisites

- Docker and Docker Compose
- Make
- Git

## 🛠 Technologies

- Oracle Database 19.3.0 Enterprise Edition
- Python 3.11
- oracledb driver version 1.4.2
- Docker & Docker Compose

## 🏗 Project Structure

```
.
├── docker-compose.yml      # Docker containers configuration
├── Dockerfile             # Python application build
├── Makefile              # Make commands for management
├── requirements.txt      # Python dependencies
├── test_app.py          # Test application
└── README.md            # Documentation (you are here 👀)
```

## 🎯 Make Commands

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `make all` | Full setup from scratch (clone repo + build + start) |
| `make db` | Starts Oracle Database only |
| `make test-app` | Starts the test Python application |
| `make app-logs` | Shows test application logs |
| `make start-all` | Starts everything (both database and application) |
| `make stop-all` | Stops all services |

## ⚠️ Important Notes

**For first-time setup:**
- The `make all` command will **pause and show you download instructions** - please read them carefully!
- You'll need to download Oracle Database 19c ARM64 installer (~2.8GB) from Oracle's website
- **First database initialization takes 5-15 minutes** - this is normal, please be patient
- The test application will wait up to 15 minutes for the database to be ready

## 🚀 Quick Start

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/Genethehuman/Oracle.git
cd Oracle
```

2. Start everything with one command:
```bash
make all
```
This will:
- Check prerequisites
- Clone Oracle Docker repository
- **Pause and show you download instructions** (read them carefully!)
- Build the Oracle Database image (after you download and place the file)
- Start everything automatically

3. Wait for the database to initialize (5-15 minutes on first run)

4. Check application logs:
```bash
make app-logs
```

**Note:** If you already have the Oracle Database image built, you can use `make start-all` instead of `make all` for quick restarts.

## 📝 Usage Examples

### Quick Restart (When Already Built)
```bash
make start-all
```

### Start Database Only
```bash
make db
```

### Start Test Application
```bash
make test-app
```

### View Logs
```bash
make app-logs
```

### Stop All Services
```bash
make stop-all
```

## 🔍 What Does the Test Application Do?

1. Waits for the database to be ready
2. Creates a test table
3. Inserts test data
4. Reads and displays the data

## ⚙️ Configuration & Customization

### 🔑 Database Settings

You can customize database settings by modifying these files:

#### **docker-compose.yml** - Main database configuration:
```yaml
services:
  oracle:
    environment:
      - ORACLE_PWD=YourPass321    # Change database password here
    ports:
      - "1521:1521"              # Change external port here (host:container)
```

#### **test_app.py** - Application connection settings:
```python
connection = oracledb.connect(
    user="system",                           # Database user
    password=os.getenv("ORACLE_PASSWORD", "YourPass321"),  # Password
    dsn="oracle:1521/ORCLPDB1"              # Host:Port/Service
)
```

#### **Makefile** - Default values:
```makefile
ORACLE_PASSWORD ?= YourPass321              # Default password
CONTAINER_NAME := oracle                    # Container name
```

### 🌐 Common Customizations

#### Change Database Password:
1. Update `ORACLE_PWD` in `docker-compose.yml`
2. Update `ORACLE_PASSWORD` in `docker-compose.yml` (test_app service)
3. Update password in `test_app.py` or use environment variable

#### Change Database Port:
1. Update port mapping in `docker-compose.yml`: `"1522:1521"`
2. Update connection string in `test_app.py`: `"oracle:1522/ORCLPDB1"`

#### Use Different Container Name:
1. Update `container_name` in `docker-compose.yml`
2. Update `CONTAINER_NAME` in `Makefile`

#### Connect from External Application:
```python
# Use this connection string in your apps:
connection_string = "system/YourPass321@localhost:1521/ORCLPDB1"
```

### 🔒 Security Notes

- **Default password**: `YourPass321` (change for production!)
- **Default port**: `1521` (standard Oracle port)
- **Service name**: `ORCLPDB1` (Oracle Pluggable Database)
- **Default user**: `system` (Oracle system user)

## 🤝 Contributing

If you want to help the project - make a fork and send a pull request! We welcome any help.

## 📜 License

MIT

## 👥 Authors

- [Gene Podrezov](https://github.com/Genethehuman)

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- Big thanks to Oracle for the excellent database
- Thanks to the Python community for amazing tools
- Special thanks to all brothers who will use this code!


---
*Made with ❤️ by brothers for brothers*
